# Simple Storage Service

<aws-icon icon="s3"></aws-icon>

S3 is an `Object-Based Storage`. Store data as objects rather then in file systems or data block.

## Basics

- The total number of objects and the number of data is unlimited
- S3 objects can be from 0 bytes up to 5 terabytes
- Store files in `Buckets` (similar to folders)

All AWS accounts share the same namespace and each S3 bucket must be globally unique (`https://<bucket-name>.s3.<region>.amazonaws.com/<key-name>`).

S3 is a `key-value` store, and it stores a key, value, version ID and metadata (e.g. content-type, last-modified, team-name, etc..).

## Availability

S3 is an highly available (99.95% - 99.99% depending on the S3 tier) and highly durable (11 9's durability) service.

## Secure your data

You can enable server side encryption on the buckets.

You can protect the access using `Access Control Lists (ACLs)` to define which AWS account can access given results.

You can define `Bucket Policies` to define which actions a user can take on the buckets.

## Exam Tips

- S3 is a `Object-Based` storage that allows you to upload files
- Not OS or run a DB storage
- Files from 0 bytes up to `5TB`
- The total value of data and number of objects you can store is `unlimited`
- Files are stored in buckets
- S3 is a global namespace, this means that the buckets must be globally available
- A S3 Object consists in `Value`, `Key`, `Version ID` and `Metadata`

# Tiers

## S3 Standard

Is a highly available and highly durable storage. Designed for `frequent access` and suitable for `most workloads`.

It's stored in at least `3 different Availability Zone`.

## S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3-IA)

Designed for infrequently access data, so data that you may access a few times a month, but not on a daily bases.

Great for long term storage, backups and disaster recovery files.

It provides `Rapid Access`, you `pay to access the data` (low per-GB storage price and a per-GB retrieval fee).

It's stored in at least `3 different Availability Zone`.

## S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3-IA)

Same as the S3-IA but it's available only in one AZ, but costs `20% less` then a regular S3-IA.

## Glacier and Glacier Deep Archive

There are 2 Glacier Options: `Glacier` and `Glacier Deep Archive`.

They are both very cheap and designed for data that needs to be accessed once per year, so good for `archiving data`.

To access data from the normal one it can take from `1 minute` to `12 hours`, while for the second has a `default` retrieval time of `12 hours`.

## S3 - Intelligent Tiering

Automatically moves you data on the most cost-effective tier based on how often you access the data.

## Exam Tips

| Storage Class                 | AZ   | Use Case                                                                                                                                      |
| ----------------------------- | ---- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| S3 Standard                   | 3    | Suitable for `most workloads`, e.g. websites, content distribution, mobile and gaming applications, and big data analytics.                   |
| S3 Standard-Infrequent Access | 3    | Long-term, `infrequently accessed critical data`, e.g. backups, data store for disaster recovery files, etc. Min storage duration: `30 days`. |
| S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access | `1`  | Long-term, `infrequently accessed non-critical data`. Min storage duration: `30 days`.                                                        |
| S3 Glacier                    | >= 3 | Long-term data `archiving` that `occasionally` needs to be accessed withing a few `hours or minutes`. Min storage duration: `90 days`.        |
| S3 Glacier Deep Archive       | >= 3 | `Rarely accessed data archiving` with a default retrieval time of `12 hours`. Min storage duration: `180 days`.                               |
